=begin pod

=head1 NAME

C<Geo::Location> - Provides location data for astronomical and other programs

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Use the default location:

=begin code :lang<raku>
$ raku
> use Geo::Location;
> my $loc = Location.new; # note no arguments entered here
> say $loc.name;
Gulf Breeze, FL, USA
> say $loc.location;
lat: 30.485092, lon: -86.4376157
say $loc.lat;
30.485092
say $loc.lon;
-86.4376157
=end code

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Geo::Location> Allows the user to define a geographical location
for easy use either by manual entry, from a JSON description, or
an environment variable (C<GEO_LOCATION>).

For now one must enter latitude and longitude using signed decimal
numbers. One easy way to find those for a location is to use
Google Maps (on a PC) and drop a location pin with its point
at the place of interest. Then select the pin, right-click,
and see the lat/lon on the first line of data. (I have
had some success also with doing that on an iPad, but it's
a bit trickier for my tastes, hence my use of a PC for
real mapping uses.)

Note the object has only two required parameters ($lat, $lon),
but there are nine other attributes available. See them
listed below.

=head3 Class construction

Use the manual entry:

=begin code
my $loc = Geo::Location.new: :lat(-36.23), :lon(+12);
=end code

Use a JSON description:

=begin code
my $json = q:to/HERE/;
{
    "name" : "Foo Town",
    "lat"  : 35.267,
    "lon"  : -42.3
}
HERE
my $loc = Geo::Location.new: :$json;
=end code

Use an environment variable:

Define desired attributes just like a manual entry
but without the colons. Use double quotes on the
entire value and single quotes inside, or the
reverse, as desired. Note also strings without
spaces do not require quotes inside the
parentheses. Note also this is only used when (1)
no manual or json methods are used and (2)
a valid C<GEO_LOCATION> environment variable
is defined in the using environment.

=begin code
$ export GEO_LOCATION="lat(42.4),lon(13.6),name('Baz Beach')";
=end code

=head3 Class attributes

There are eleven total public attributes in the class.

=item city

=begin item
country  

typically a two-character ISO code
=end item

=item county

=begin item 
id       

use as unique reference in a collection
=end item

=item lat
=item lon

=begin item 
name     

a convenient display name
=end item

=item notes

=begin item
region 

B<EU>, etc., multi-country area with DST rules
=end item

=begin item 
state    

typically a two-letter ISO code, for example, a US state
=end item

=begin item 
timezone 

use as a reference time zone abbreviation for use with module B<DateTime::US>
=end item


=head3 Class methods

In addition to the methods provided for the public attributes
listed above, the following added methods provide some
other ways of showing object data.

=begin item
B<lat-dms>(--> Str) {...}

Returns the latitude in DMS format
=end item

=begin item
B<lon-dms>(--> Str) {...}

Returns the longitude in DMS format
=end item

=begin item
B<riseset-format>(:bare --> Str) {...}

Returns the format required by the Perl programs
accompanying CPAN Perl module B<Astro::Montenbruck>
(in this module the format will also be referred to
as 'B<RST>'):

=begin code
./script/riseset.pl --place=30N29 86W26 --twilight=civil
=end code

Note that Perl module's convention for the sign
of East longitude is negative instead of positive
for decimal entries, so it is important to use
the provided RST format to avoid longitude errors.
=end item

=begin item
B<lat-rst>(--> Str) {...}

Returns the latitude in RST format
=end item

=begin item
B<lon-rst>(--> Str) {...}

Returns the longitude in RST format
=end item

=begin item
B<location>(:$format = 'decimal', :bare --> Str) {

Returns the location in a single string in the specified format. For
example:


In default decimal:
=begin code
say $loc.location;
lat: 30.485092, lon: -86.4376157
say $loc.location(:bare);
30.485092 -86.4376157
=end code

Or in DMS:

=begin code
say $loc.location(:format('dms');
lat: N30d29m6s, lon: W86d26m15s
say $loc.location(:format('dms'), :bare);
N30d29m6s W86d26m15s
=end code

Or in RST:

=begin code
say $loc.location(:format('rst'), :plain);
lat: 30N29, lon: 86W26
say $loc.location(:format('rst', :plain);
30N29 86W26
=end code


=end item

=head1 To Do

=item Allow other forms of lat/lon entry besides decimal
=item Provide more methods for astronomical use
=item Prove enums for use with argument entry

=head1 AUTHOR

Tom Browder C<tom.browder@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

E<0x00a9> 2020 Tom Browder

This library is free software; you may redistribute it or modify it under the Artistic License 2.0.

=end pod
